chore(doc):Add guide to Deploy Gatsby to DigitalOcean droplet. (#24652)
gatsbyjs/gatsby: docs/docs/deploying-to-digitalocean-droplet.md

---

> title: Deploying to DigitalOcean Droplet

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Deploying to a DigitalOcean Droplet
```

---

This guide walks through how to deploy and host your next Gatsby site on [DigitalOcean Droplet](https://www.digitalocean.com/products/droplets/).

> DigitalOcean provides the easiest cloud platform to deploy, manage, and scale applications of any size, removing infrastructure friction and providing predictability so developers and their teams can spend more time building better software.

Author: Okay. Noted your point. 😃

> DigitalOcean's famous product droplets are scalable compute IaaS(Infrastructure as a Service) or a VPS on the cloud which has great reliability and scalability and they come along with varied price range ideal for small apps to giant enterprise-level apps that harness the profit for your business.

Author: Yeah, I get it 👍

> They provide service to select from the 6 Unix based distributions and select your technology-based platform with preinstalled pre-requisites from the marketplace.

Author: I think it should be,
**walk** in place of **talk** .

A Droplet could be spin up in just 55 seconds with as low as \$5/month!

> ## Pre-requisites

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Prerequisites
```

> 1. Your Gatsby site living in a Git repository (Github/Gitlab or any git cloud).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A Gatsby site living in a Git repository (GitHub, GitLab, or any Git cloud)
```

2. [DigitalOcean Droplet](https://www.digitalocean.com/products/droplets/) with a non-root user configured with sudo group.
3. A custom domain name for your Gatsby site which will help configure SSL for HTTPS.

> ## Steps to deploy your Gatsby site to DigitalOcean Droplet

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How to deploy your Gatsby site to DigitalOcean
```
This is a Reference Guide, not a tutorial, so it should focus more generally on content than steps (also why the prerequisites are recommended as an unordered list).

Nginx is web-server, it provides the infrastructure code for handling client requests from the World Wide Web, along with features like a load balancer, mail proxy and HTTP Cache.

1. Install Nginx

   ```bash
   sudo apt-get install nginx
   ```

2. Configure firewall settings of the droplet to listen to HTTP and HTTPS requests on port 80 and 443 respectively.

   ```bash
   sudo ufw allow 'Nginx HTTP'
   sudo ufw allow 'Nginx HTTPS'
   ```

3. To check the access,

   ```bash
   sudo ufw app list
   ```

4. In case, if ufw status is disabled/inactive, you can enable it using,

   ```bash
   sudo ufw enable
   ```

   `Note`: Allow the OpenSSH if not already done, to not disconnect from your droplet.

   ```bash
   sudo ufw allow 'OpenSSH'
   ```

### Configuring Ngnix to point to your gatsby site's `/public` directory and add your domain

Change the root directory configuration of Nginx in the default server block file

1. Go to /etc/nginx/sites-available/

   ```bash
   cd /etc/nginx/sites-available/
   ```

2. Open the file default

   ```bash
   sudo vim default
   ```

> 3. Edit the file and make the following changes for below-mentioned fields, leave the rest of the fields as it is.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Edit the file and make the following changes for below-mentioned fields, leave the rest of the fields as is.
```

   ```bash
   server {
     root <path to my-gatsby-app>/public;

     index index.html index.htm index.nginx-debian.html;

     server_name <your-domain-name>;

     location / {
       try_files $uri $uri/ =404;
     }
   }
   ```

4. Restart the ngnix service,

   ```bash
   sudo systemctl restart nginx
   ```

5. Configure your domain to point to the IP address of your droplet. Go to the Advanced DNS settings in your domain provider's console and put an A record that points to the IP address of the droplet.

6. By this time, you can view your site live at `<your-domain>`.

### Configuring SSL for your Gatsby Site.

Follow the below steps to configure your site with a free SSL certificate from Lets Encrypt using their Certbot cli tool.

> However, it's advised to use a premium SSL certificate from any SSL Certificate provider.

Author: Removed the line.

   ```bash
   sudo apt-get install certbot python3-certbot-nginx
   ```

2. Generate the certificate. Certbot will automatically edit and configure the ngnix config file for the SSL and point to the certificate file.

   Run the following command,

   ```bash
   sudo certbot --nginx
   ```

3. If you are using Certbot for the first time on this droplet then you will be prompted to enter your e-mail for recovery purpose.

4. Agree to the license agreement on prompt.

   `Note`: You will be prompted to select the domain for which you want to generate the certificate. Select the domain configured in [this](#configuring-ngnix-to-point-to-your-gatsby-site's-`public`-directory-and-add-your-domain) step.

   `Note`: You will be prompted to choose the option to redirect HTTP requests to HTTPS, you may choose on your needs.
   (Suggested, to choose to redirect HTTP to HTTPS)

5. Restart the nginx service.

   ```bash
   sudo systemctl restart nginx
   ```

6. Now, you can access your site at `<your-domain>` with a secure connection.

### View your Gatsby site live

Once you've followed along with all the steps and configuration properly, you can visit your site live at `<your-domain>`.

> Whenever there's an update to your site, run a `sudo gatsby build` in the root of your `<my-gatsby-app>` and your changes will be live.

Author: We could achieve CI or automated builds with the use of Github Actions and Git hooks? But don't you think it would make this guide more of a tutorial? We could keep the guide pretty raw and basic, we can obviously make a tutorial on building CI for this deployment option and link it to this guide. What are your views?

> Whenever there's an update to your site, run a `sudo gatsby build` in the root of your `<my-gatsby-app>` and your changes will be live.

Reviewer: Hey there. I think at least mentioning it would be useful–even a link to an offsite resource for automating builds. I don't think that would tip a guide toward a tutorial, as this is already pretty sequential even with standalone headings as opposed to "steps". But we could get this one merged and open that as a separate issue, perhaps.

> Whenever there's an update to your site, run a `sudo gatsby build` in the root of your `<my-gatsby-app>` and your changes will be live.

Author: Hey, I have searched for some good off-site resources, but I don't find any good resource to add as a link in this doc. Those resources are not exact to what we need. I think adding them, would mislead people. Instead, I'm planning to write a micro-tutorial on building automated CI for Gatsby and Digitalocean on some off-site platform which we can add as a link to this doc later on. Or else, as you suggested we can open this as a separate issue to write a tutorial. Let me know what do you think.

> Whenever there's an update to your site, run a `sudo gatsby build` in the root of your `<my-gatsby-app>` and your changes will be live.

Reviewer: I think opening a separate issue to follow this PR is a good idea, that way we can track it!

> Whenever there's an update to your site, run a `sudo gatsby build` in the root of your `<my-gatsby-app>` and your changes will be live.

Author: Yes. Perfect! 😃

---
title: Deploying to a DigitalOcean Droplet
---

> This guide walks through how to deploy and host your Gatsby site on a [DigitalOcean Droplet](https://www.digitalocean.com/products/droplets/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide walks through how to deploy and host your Gatsby site on a [DigitalOcean Droplet](https://www.digitalocean.com/products/droplets/) with Ubuntu and Nginx.
```

Recommend to make the technology for this more explicit at the beginning, since there are other options it doesn't cover.

They provide service to select from various Unix-based distributions and select your technology-based platform with preinstalled pre-requisites from the marketplace. This guide will walk through the specific options that work best for deploying a Gatsby site with DigitalOcean.

A Droplet can be spun up in less than a minute for as little as \$5/month.

## Prerequisites

- A Gatsby site living in a Git repository (GitHub, GitLab, or any Git cloud)
- A [DigitalOcean Droplet](https://www.digitalocean.com/products/droplets/) with a non-root user configured with sudo group ([example: Ubuntu 18.04](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-create-a-new-sudo-enabled-user-on-ubuntu-18-04-quickstart))
- A custom domain name for your Gatsby site to help with configuring HTTPS

## How to deploy your Gatsby site to DigitalOcean

### Install NodeJS, NPM and Gatsby-CLI onto your droplet

Follow these instructions for installs on an Ubuntu droplet.

1. Log in to your droplet as a non-root user.

2. Install NodeJS

   ```bash
   sudo apt-get update
   sudo apt-get install nodejs
   ```

3. Install npm

   ```bash
   sudo apt-get install npm
   ```

>    To view the version of node and npm installed, run,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   To view the version of Node and npm installed, run,
```

   ```bash
   node -v
   npm -v
   ```

> 4. To install the latest stable release using the `n` package (Optional) (Recommended),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. To install the latest stable Node.js release using the `n` package (Required),
```
apt-get installed Node 8, and Gatsby now requires Node 10 or higher. So this should be a required step.

   ```bash
   sudo npm install -g n
   sudo n stable
   ```

   `Note`: If you check the version now, you would see the older versions of node and npm from the cache.
   You can either exit and restart your terminal or refresh the cache by following commands,

   ```bash
   hash node
   hash npm
   ```

5. Install the gatsby-cli now globally. This will be useful ahead in building the Gatsby site for production.

   ```bash
   sudo npm install -g gatsby-cli
   ```

### Clone your repository to the droplet

The next step is to clone the repository containing your Gatsby app (Replace `<your-github-repo-site>` with your Github repository link)

```bash

> git clone <your-github-repo-site>

Reviewer: I got a warning here for a git HTTP url, but it looks like it still cloned the repo:

```
gatsby@gatsby-do-test:~$ git clone https://github.com/marcysutton/gatsby-accessibility-starter
Cloning into 'gatsby-accessibility-starter'...
remote: Enumerating objects: 100, done.
remote: Counting objects: 100% (100/100), done.
remote: Compressing objects: 100% (62/62), done.
remote: Total 100 (delta 23), reused 84 (delta 12), pack-reused 0
Receiving objects: 100% (100/100), 1.89 MiB | 17.16 MiB/s, done.
Resolving deltas: 100% (23/23), done.
warning: unable to access '/home/gatsby/.config/git/attributes': Permission denied
```

Author: I think maybe your non-root user which probably is gatsby is not having sudo privileges. However, I have added a snippet to overcome this warning issue. Anyways, I checked this warning will not hamper the steps.

```

> > Note: this guide will refer to the cloned directory as `<my-gatsby-app>` for simplicity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Note: this guide will refer to the cloned directory as `<my-gatsby-app>` for simplicity; you should replace it with your repo directory name.
```

> ### Build your gatsby site to generate a static site for production

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Generate your Gatsby site for production
```

The static files will be hosted publicly on the droplet. The `gatsby build` command provides utility to build the site and generate the static files in the `/public`.

1. Install dependencies.

```bash

> cd my-gatsby-app

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cd <my-gatsby-app>
```

sudo npm install
```

2. Run build to generate static files.

```bash
sudo gatsby build
```

> ### Install Nginx Web Server to host the static site and open firewall to accept HTTP and HTTPS requests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Install Nginx Web Server to host the site and open firewall to accept HTTP and HTTPS requests
```

To host a website or static files onto a Linux-based server/VPS, a web-server like Apache or Nginx is required.

Nginx is web-server. It provides the infrastructure code for handling client requests from the World Wide Web, along with features like a load balancer, mail proxy, and HTTP Cache.

1. Install Nginx.

   ```bash
   sudo apt-get install nginx
   ```

2. Configure firewall settings of the droplet to listen to HTTP and HTTPS requests on port 80 and 443 respectively.

   ```bash
   sudo ufw allow 'Nginx HTTP'
   sudo ufw allow 'Nginx HTTPS'
   ```

3. To check the access,

   ```bash
   sudo ufw app list
   ```

4. If `ufw` status is disabled/inactive, you can enable it with the following command:

   ```bash
   sudo ufw enable
   ```

   Allow the OpenSSH if not already done, to not disconnect from your droplet.

   ```bash
   sudo ufw allow 'OpenSSH'
   ```

> ### Configuring Nginx to point to your Gatsby site's `/public` directory and add your domain

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Configure Nginx to point to your Gatsby site's `/public` directory and add your domain
```

Change the root directory configuration of Nginx in the default server block file

1. Go to `/etc/nginx/sites-available/`

   ```bash
   cd /etc/nginx/sites-available/
   ```

> 2. Open the file default

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Open the file default in Vim ([shortcut cheat sheet](https://devhints.io/vim))
```

   ```bash
   sudo vim default
   ```

> 3. Edit the file and make the following changes for below-mentioned fields, leave the rest of the fields as is.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Edit the file and make the following changes for below-mentioned fields, leave the rest of the fields as is. Your exact path may vary, but it may resemble `/home/<your non-root user>/<my-gatsby-app>/public`.
```

People might need a little help finding the path, I had to exit out of Vim to find it since I guessed wrong.

   ```bash
   server {
     root <path to my-gatsby-app>/public;

     index index.html index.htm index.nginx-debian.html;

     server_name <your-domain-name>;

     location / {
       try_files $uri $uri/ =404;
     }
   }
   ```

4. Restart the Nginx service

   ```bash
   sudo systemctl restart nginx

>    ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
   ```
You should now be able to view your built Gatsby site at your DigitalOcean IP address, before configuring a domain.
````

### Install NodeJS, NPM and Gatsby-CLI onto your droplet

Follow these instructions for installs on an Ubuntu droplet.

1. Log in to your droplet as a non-root user.

2. Install NodeJS

   ```bash
   sudo apt-get update
   sudo apt-get install nodejs
   ```

3. Install npm

   ```bash
   sudo apt-get install npm
   ```

   To view the version of Node and npm installed, run,

   ```bash
   node -v
   npm -v
   ```

4. To install the latest stable Node.js release using the `n` package (Required),

   ```bash
   sudo npm install -g n
   sudo n stable
   ```

   `Note`: If you check the version now, you would see the older versions of node and npm from the cache.
   You can either exit and restart your terminal or refresh the cache by following commands,

   ```bash
   hash node
   hash npm
   ```

5. Install the gatsby-cli now globally. This will be useful ahead in building the Gatsby site for production.

   ```bash
   sudo npm install -g gatsby-cli
   ```

### Clone your repository to the droplet

The next step is to clone the repository containing your Gatsby app (Replace `<your-github-repo-site>` with your Github repository link)

```bash
git clone <your-github-repo-site>
```

> Incase of any warning related to Permission denied, check if <your non-root user> have sudo privileges or before cloning your repository, give permission to <your non-root user> to access the .config directory of under /home/gatsby/.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case of a warning related to "Permission denied", check if `<your non-root user>` has `sudo` privileges. Or before cloning your repository, [change permissions](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/FilePermissions) for `<your non-root user>` to access the `.config` directory of under `/home/gatsby/':
```

```bash
cd ~/

> sudo chown -R $(whoami) .config

Reviewer: You probably want to tell the user how to navigate back to their project directory here, as I could see the path in the next section being unclear.

Author: Okay. I'm adding a note to copy the path where the local repo/app dir resides for future reference and adding the link to same in the subsequent sequence just in-case the user loses track.
